First Case... Second Case
Those at the last two rows!
You're going to say who was responsible,
or otherwise you should leave the classroom and not to come back until the weekend
Your son is one of these pupils.
What do you expect of him?
Does he have to tell the teacher who disturbed the classroom and then get back into the classroom?
Or is it better for him not to say a word and withstand until the weekend?
Should I give an answer?
It's pretty difficult to make a statement in reply to that...
Is it recording? Should I answer? - Yes it is. Go on.
My son did a right thing. Because they  may learn solidaity from childness on.
Therefore, when they'd mature, they'll stand firm if there would be a battle
Ofcourse, if he wants to ingratiate and desert his classmates
It would be possible for the teacher  to ?*?*
But when he'd grow up, he will definitely become an ass kissing, bootlicking and ostentatious kind of a guy
But by enduring and not saying a word, he will become resistant and then he always will have the opportunity to advise,
his classmate -in person- not to brattle at the classroom, and listen to what the teacher is saying, and show respect towards the teacher.
But it's disgusting for him to rat.
- What? - They haven't done a good job.
They should study. What are they doing standing outside the class? Not a thing!
I have worked my bone for him to study, not to do other things.
Yes! He ought to go and study.
I suggest him to retain his solidarity.
and not to get back in the class.
I do place emphasis on his keeping solidarity with his classmates.
Because if he tells who is responsible for such an act, the solidarity would be lost.
According to the thing shown, I believe it was the last one.
It's possible that the last one sitting in front of Mammad Reza  is responsible.
No. It wasn't Mammad Reza.
Let's see. There were some people in the classroom.
One of them is hitting the table with blackboard-eraser.
The teacher couldn't find out who was responsible, so he sent children sitting at last two rows out and your son is among them.
Your son knows who brattled. Now, what do you expect from your son?
He's not a naughty boy. He never cheats nor breaks the rules in football.
My son is studious. He's really studious, even more than his older brother.
I don't know whether children did something wrong against him or not. I don't know what it's all about.
Look! Let me explain something. It wasn't Mammad Reza and we know that he wasn't.
There was someone else responsible. Due to the fact that the teacher couldn't find out who the brattler was, he has discharged everyone from the class which are totally 7 people.
The thing is that Mammad Reza knows who brattled. Now, which one do you prefer?
To rat about the battler and sit in his chair or to wait and stand up in the corridor for a week? Give us your viewpoint.
My viewpoint is that this boy behaved badly at the last row or they did hit the table with something.
Afterwards, they told that it was Mammad Reza Barati's fault. Mammad Reza Barati never does such a thing.
My viewpoint is that I have worked hard to bring money home and he is spending it and studying here.
According to this, it can't be this way. No. It's not. I'm not in agreement with his doing such a thing.
- Does it mean he has to tell the teacher?
Yes. tell? tell whom? myself?
- Does that mean he has to tell the teacher?
Yes. He must tell. He must tell who did hit the table and sit in his chair.
Should I speak?
I think that the pupil who did disturb the arrangement of the class must be introduced by other members of the classroom, so that not everyone get involved in the a-week-lasting punishment.
The father is laboring. The teacher is laboring.  So that the pupil would learn a lesson and enjoy it.
If they resist to offer the name of the disturber, they have to miss the class for a week and it's not right.
They have to do it and introduce the disturber.
And I expect my son to associate with his teacher and introduce the disturber.
Saturday
Sunday
Monday
Mister! It was Mohammad Reza Ne'mati.
In your opinion, have this pupil done a right thing?
Please express your reasonings concisely.
Let me say that, if their solidarity is favorable to us, naturally, it would be unfavorable to break such solidarity.
In my opinion, the pupil who doesn't resect their solidarity, -at least merely this particular solidarity,  regardless of factors, reasoning and the place in which it took place-
If the group has done something and one of them breaks that work, it'd be regarded as unfavorable.
No. The pupil hasn't done a right thing. The one who has made him express this wrong reaction is the teacher.
The teacher has destroyed the pupil's personality. The act is wrong but the factor leading to such an act is the teacher, not the pupil.
Therefore, the teacher is the guilty one. The act is wrong. I don't blame the performer but the factor.
Undoubtedly, there occured a fault. In my opinion, it wasn't the pupil who did this fault.
At first place, it was the teacher who did a fault that asked him to rat. I mean, he did put him in the espionage situation.
Second, the pupil's parents who didn't train their child to react properly in such situation, and not to participate in the crime he's been asked to do.
Therefore, I don't blame the child but the environmental parameters, which is frustrating.
This child acquired a wisdom. When he realized that he had abused other's rights and it wasn't a right thing to do, he returned to the classroom. I admire his courage.
Although he did abandoned his friends group, when he realized that the way he is taking is the right one, it wouldn't matter anymore. The other pupils will return tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
In my opinion, it's obviousely not right. We have to see how this pupil has been trained, what has happened in his home, to his spirit, which led him to do this act.
It's easy to prospect what'd be the outcome of this kind of behavior and imagine what kind of a man he will become.
For a pupil who couldn't resist, in his own opinion, he did a right thing. But it's the teacher who must not make a situation which leads  to these problems.
Otherwise, you can't ignore the fact that resistances are different.
No. Definitely not. I believe that lesson is not just the framework which we see that the activity'd be justified.
In other words, it seems worthy to betray and get back in his seat in order to continue his studying. But actually, the lesson held in the back of the class is more important.
It's not right. I do even disapprove this pupil's work. Because this has caused harm to their group-work.
Since they have done something in return of the oppressive, painful session and the whole-group have left the classroom, therefore the ratter is a betrayer and in my opinion,
the other members should beat him to a pulp so that he won't dare to repeat his action.
This pupil's behavior, after he sat in the bench, is precisely showing that he's not calm and  indeed was pretty stressed-out.
Maybe he was suffering a conscious guilt due to the fact that he had acted against his age-related principles. Therefore,  I don't approve such a work. Because he had done it against his will.
He was showing it by his mental demonstration. Maybe he was ashamed of his conscious that he was playing with his hands.
All in all, he wasn't calm and he was suffering and probably he would become abandoned from his group because he didn't support the group.
The answer is shown in the shame this pupil have.
I think he has made a rightful decision. Because he has realized of the crime he was involved in. He knew the truth and he wasn't telling it.
therefore, after two days due to his inner challenges and conflicts, he suddenly felt that it's better to reveal the truth and he does it. In my opinion, his action was a positive one.
I am speaking about the teacher's approach which is to punish the pupils joinly. Regarding the fact that there's nothing going on in the class and  it is only him painting on the wall,
so the pupils become tired and the teacher failed to bring out the cooperation between himself and the pupils. The pupil was shown coming back and ratting against his classmate.
I, on the other hand, blame the teacher who punished everyone and caused someone to become a ratter. To rat is a sin in human-manner and in religious-manner.
In my opinion, the pupil's work was undoubtedly wrong because he  abandoned himself from the group. The human lives inside the community.
he got his place on the bench but he suffered his conscious for the next semester or maybe longer.
In my opinion, yes. Due to the fact that the subject of solidarity is illegal. The solidarity fails to find its high-value. Whenever, you suppose,
Resistance against injustice is a highly-valued resistance. However,  resistance against justice becomes wrong idea.  Resistance against crime is esteemed but against prohibiting-crime is wrong.
this pupil's work is right and I think he have to defend his right and society's right and rat against the responsible-one who isn't anymore a valued-companion.
Well, I disapprove this pupil's action. Like I've told, by this action the roots of this evil and naughtyness isn't going to diminish.
I believe if there's someone who wants to detect, investigate, report or discover social diseases, he'd better do it in a more principled and deep percpective rather than in a private framework.
In my opinion, no. The way in which the thought-organization becomes valued is that it could distinguish individuals from eachother and could convert the members' relationships from communialism to individualism and
could expand this approach beyond political and social limits.
That means, here we are facing a regimented organization which is confronted against a group-resistance and
is desiring to break the group resistance  by one of its member's betrayal.
and it's symbolic and it can expand into all social levels.
I do condemn this pupil's action from  such viewpoint.
I belive this pupil has became mentally-troubled due to the  fact that he's feeling he had betrayed his belonging-group.
These feelings and these confrontings'd become a major trouble in future-era political society. (by this way of education we chose)
I think this pupil's action has two faces. In one hand, ha had a hard-to-solve problem (not be able to educate) to solve
In other hand, the friendship-solidarity issue,  however it's in a false context, which has positive aspects.
I thin k before performing such act, this pupil should have discussed it among his members so that they could find a solution together.
A solution which wouldn't comprise abandonment. He has provoked 6 other member's hate against himself, not to mention his other classmates' opinion.
He has produced some difficulties in his relationships with his classmates, which otherwise was friendly.
However, he had a right idea that he wanted to solve  this problem. It's impossible to whether condemn or approve his work.
Totally, I blame the school proncipal more than anyone else. It's him responsible for not letting pupil's put in this situations.
He should find a soft approach to solve in-school problems.
To force the pupil to confess is a kind of inquisition. Inquisition is private investigation which foreigns call it "Ingisision"!
That means you want to reveal someone's idea/thought and you want to fribble with him.
I think by such act, you are victimizing a pupil's humanity in order that he becomes your puppet; in what form you please.
I think this would harm the pupil's spirit and gradually will make the pupil disloyal towards his own personality.
It's possible that such pupil who confess against his friends would someday decide to betray (in an important situation)
This procedure is a wrong procedure. It's not compatible with Islamic lessons to force someone to testify against someone else.
I can even tell you a poem about this and that's Hafez's poem which goes like this:
"Take it easy with yourself, that naturally, the world takes it hard for hard-working people."
If you want to behave hard and aggressive, it would undoubtedly end up in a disaster.
SECOND CASE first take
Saturday
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Saturday
What do you think about theses pupil's teamwork?
Do you think their action and resistance was a right decision?
Please express your reasonings concisely.
In my opinion, should I talk now?
In my opinion, regarding the fact that  they didn't rat against their frind,  their action is completely right.
But their teamwork wasn't complete. I'm telling you this because they didn't benefit except that they didin't rat.
In other words, the teacher learns from pupils. Here, it was a learning opportunity for the teacher to learn.
So, because your work wasn't worthy for the children, the brattling and rhythming on the table had been occured.
In addition to doing this and not to rat  (which was a very good job) , pupils could altogether  direct the teacher to the better way of teaching.
Pupil's reaction is very suitable. You can't expect otherwise from a human being.
Reaction is completely right, and if you're seeing something bad in this scene, it's the teacher's wrong-doing.
He must wonder why when he's apparently working, pupils don't pay attention and do some odd jobs?
In my opinion, pupils done what one could expect from them.
In other words, until we haven't train pupils , reactions are always right.
And one mustn't expect other than this from people at the same age.
I think that this solidarity is a good thing.
And the important thing which we should discuss and pay attention to is that
why this event has been occured?
Concisely, in my opinion, it was a reaction to a failed teacher. And maybe the teacher would wonder and think of and solve his own problems.
I consider this a positive act. Instead of condemning I hope that we'd discuss and find the factors leading to such act.
These pupil's resistance was a wrong resistance. They have gathered and united in a nasty work.
Resistance in itself is sacred. But their ambition which led them to leave the class together was a wrong work.
The reason behind this is that the class didn't belong only to these 6 or 7 pupil. Classroom did belong to everybody and one of them disturbed the liberty of the class.
I believe we don't have a guilty child. We don't have a wrong child.
Guilt and crime belongs usually to the adults. Like the adage they say in doctor's clinic: "The patients have the rights",
because patients are in a hard conditions, likewise pupils have the rights because they're in a special conditions.
I think what they have done, establishing a week of resistance, it bears a  political and social credit to itself. It can give them Revolutionary mind.
and unity spirit. It can make them ready for establishing the country. Since they don't consider themselves guilty, this credit would credit 100x more.
If they were guilty and showed this uniteness, it was different. Since they didn't commit a crime (it was only environmental factors' fault), it's extraordinarily beautiful.
In my opinion, regarding all of the teacher-pupil relationship we considered here, we have seen our cultural and governmental values.
so that pupils show rebelness against system by confronting the teacher. and it showed the teacher's attitude against an event in a revolutionary society.
that he's punishing without prerequisite considerations and in biased approach. and it reflects that he's condemning a group for what a single individual has done.
In such society, pupil's group reaction is considered natural.
Totally, the movie dosn't show whether the teacher could find out the battler or not. But pupils didn't educate properly without distinguishing the troubled-one.
One was responsible. 6 innocents were raped of their rights. This shows that this teacher's other judgements weren't based on humanity.
Because according to Islam, it's better not to condemn a guilty one rather than accusing an innocent one.
Because he would taste the cruelty and  there must not be no cruelty in Islamic organization.
I think it was a wrong work. I don't consider this a positive unity and resistance.
why? because they were disturbing. It could be a good thing if it held in a political atmosphere.
But in academic atmosphere where telling-the-truth ought to be highly-valued, it was a wrong thing to do for a pupil.
Regarding the training-program by this teacher, I think pupil -at least by their resistance- showed they are alive.
They're partisans.
training system isn't good. I believe, in such system, this kind of resistance is a best thing to do. They have shown they're human, resistant and fighter.
I think that it's better not to talk. it was good that they didn't rat. To perform team-work maintenance is important in this age. (It could be different in other ages).
In this cut, in this scene, this action was right.
I completely approve pupil's work. Why programing the class in such way that he paints something and then he wants to talk about it? You can't expect 50 pupils in the classroom silently immobile to wait for the teacher to paint and not to talk about it immediately.
The teacher could paint it before the class, and by the time pupils has attended the class they would exploit it. So that the class would become more interesting to the pupils.
I approve pupil's work. it was really good. They have resisted and totally, they fighted against the order, against the authority. I approve it. They did pretty good job.
They have done a very suitable work. And this kind of confrontation is what's suitable for the healthy society and culture.
Now, What pupils would decide to do to the rat is another issue.
But In my opinion, how they did face the problem was completely right.
This kind of work you're doing is to wipe up the dirty Arya Mehr culture which they always have promoted into our society.
I remember it as a child. Not only it has been promoted in recent 25 years, but also recent 50 years.
It's the culture we've been adopted to because of the force and tyranny. that people should behave  in such a way in order to monarchy to live on.
to tyranny to live on. And it was indeed an  introduction to wipe up such culture.
The culture was based on training rats and it was started during school-years.
I believe what pupils have done is completely right. The right procedure ought to be this way.
This act which is not to introduce the disturber, psychologically and in religious-manner,
is not considered betrayal. But it's a  kind of loyalty.
It's probable that teachers and educational authoritites don't treat children this way.
This way is disgusting. Indeed, they are forcing you to betray your kind.
We must act in a way in which  doesn't involve breaking loyalty among children.
As an cooperation or symphaty, they shouldn't use  children and pupils, the most intact one, as a rat or informer.
It would break their personality and spirit. and it would make them contemn themselves.
Solidarity and team-work is potentially valuable.
But the issue is about training.
whether it's valuable in crime, sloth and murder as much as in good-work, revolutionary work,  and resistance against cruelty?
Therefore, the value of solidarity is related with the subject of solidarity.
In this particular subject, it seems that solidarity has been exceeded beyond the subject.
In other words, it's stubbornness in an illegal subject.
It seems that in such situation, both teacher and  pupils should treated more casual.
Therefore, solidairty is in itself good unless it's subject is wrong.
whatever its form is, resistance is sacred  and wonderful to me.
Apart from what would be this resistance's incentive.
This solidarity is like the unity among drug-smugglers. You're saying if solidarity is valuable then this solidarity is valuable too.
I approve these pupil's behavior.
And I think the best way to support eachother
against a common enemy, regarding my background,
usually this action occurs among pupils here.
I inly approve them.
Although their unity is against our work and
sometimes it's necessary for us to be makebat,
I don't ever approve to be a makebate.
Because we can use their unity for educational purposes.
During recent 25 years, especially from 1956,
the Security Organization been established,
which promoted spying in our culture.
When you consider recent 10 years history
of Iranian fighters,
Most of partisan groups due to such
spying and curiosity behavior among people,
get shown up.
Curiosity such as "Who is our neighbour?",
"Who are these people frequently come and go?"
If you'd remember, recently the Security Organization,
circularized to all register offices and real-estate offices
to send them a list of tenants.
Due to the spying culture,
Mostly, it was these neighbours and real-estate agents,
who informed the cops withought knowing
what disasters would be the result
of such behaviour to that particular group and
eventually to the whole society.
Therefore, I approve these pupil's action.
And if I were in one of these pupil's
father's shoes,
I would be proud of such pupil certainly.
It's can't be answered whether these
pupil's behavior was right or wrong.
It's a problem facing all of the young
people and educational authorities
around the globe.
In this case, it's hard to whether
approve one side or not.
Because in this case, if one of the
pupils would rat, it's the right decision
from one viewpoint.
But from another viewpoint, he has lost
his companies' trust.
Which means it had both a positive
and a negative aspect.
And if we approve pupil's behavior, well,
it is two faced too.
They had supported eachother but
because of a wrong factor.
It's hard for us to decide between
this case and that case.
Because it's two-faced in both cases.
According to age of the pupils, the school
environment and their solidarity,
it' hard for them to decide a middle point.
We must fairly understand this.
To face such mental disease needs
educationally precise action.
I thnik the answer lies in a series
of questions:
Whether the teacher's attitude was
right or not? How could we prevent
such situation?
The main problem isn't to
solve the issue in this case.
I think if they had a proper educational
system, they'd better find a reason
to find a reason of pupil's lack of interest,
-what we say pupil is a bunch of humanity-
Especially, regarding the fact that their
number is rather large.
I think they should find a cause, -there's
ofcourse a cause for them to withstand a week-,
I think why did they get back to class at last?
why didn't resist much longer to alter the system?
Again they went to the same class
and same teacher!
This time they can't enjoy making niose too!
I believe their resistance was good but
it had a negative aspect that they
did get back to class which I believe they shouldn't!
Everyone has his own taste and procedure.
If I were in those pupil's shoes, I wouldn't rat.
Whether you want to call it fear, maybe
I was a little affraid in my childhood,
But now, I won't do such action neither.
Because I believe the disasterous outcomes of
rat that pupil is more than it's beneficiary outcomes.
Firstly, this thing that pupil is
forced to do is a kind of inquisition.
And he would become a society's gendarme
and inform the authorities regularly.
even if there's no crime occuring he
would produce it.
He would become a makebate for no reason.
Ethically, I don't approve to rat
in one own's group even there's
a crime going on.
He must try to convince the other pupil
not to do disturb again.
To rat would end up in a disaster.
For example, the teacher would send him out
and the other pupil would do the same thing.
And the chaos would linger on and
never be solved.
