Translated and Subtitled by
Eric Fetterman (Naren)
Hakuchi
(Idiot)
Tadanobu Asano
Miyako Koda
Reika Hashimoto
Masao Kusakari
Based on the novel by Ango Sakaguchi
Written and Directed by Makoto Tezuka
In that house, there lived humans, pigs, dogs, chickens, and ducks, but...
the food they ate and the buildings they lived in were almost exactly the same.
The house was horribly twisted and was more like a storeroom than a house.
Downstairs lived an older couple. A young girl was lodging in the house's annex.
This young girl was pregnant with a child whose father was unknown.
It seems that the second-floor room that I'm renting
used to belong to the couple's son who had lung disease, but...
the room isn't even luxurious to a lung diseased pig.
Even so, the room had a closet, a bathroom, and a cupboard.
Mr. Izawa.
Mr. Izawa. Breakfast is ready.
Oh, what beautiful weather!
Dry your futon out once and a while.
You see this? I had someone fix it.
Oh! It's perfect! Thank goodness.
Please wear it.
Your breakfast is gonna get cold, so come down soon, ok?
The couple were tailors, the man teaching about needlework
and, even being a member of the neighborhood committee.
The young girl had been a desk worker at the old neighborhood committee, but...
while sleeping at the office, it seems she become involved with many
of the committee members.
Eventually she got pregnant from someone's seed.
Hey! Aki!
She's such a bothersome young girl.
If she's not careful with her baby, she could seriously damage it.
She doesn't realize anything!
She's involved with all the committee members.
But I'm different. I have no interest in getting involved with stray cats like her.
She's almost like a magazine being passed around.
She goes from house to house to everyone there is.
I'm really the only one who hasn't given in to her invitations.
Even if she invited you, you wouldn't do anything.
You see? My husband - he doesn't have any courage.
If I don't have any courage, how the hell do I live with you?
The women that live around here are either...
like this exhausted old woman here... or are prostitutes or...
are some young girl who has no idea who her kid's father is.
Well... because, at the fishmonger's, there are idiots who are using perch...
Hey. No more of that while we're eating.
But... I'm jealous.
A job in television... Being surrounded by nymph-like babes...
You're probably getting your hands on just about anything you can, eh?
What are you talking about? Mr. Izawa isn't like you.
I'm sorry, Mr. Izawa.
But a job in television must be an incredibly difficult job.
It's really impressive for someone so young.
Excuse me.
I thought we were going to lose this war.
I had at least hid some small preparations for the resistance in a corner of my mind.
This area is mostly cheap apartments,
where concubines and prostitutes live.
Because none of the woman have any children, they share the common trait
of cleaning their rooms, which keeps the custodian happy
and the women's immorality has never once become a problem.
A Chinese murderer was the boss of the gambling hall
and his daughter was one of the tailor's pupils.
Next door was an acupressure therapist,
who needed acupressure more than anyone else.
Next door, there was a pickpocket master
But, regardless of his appearance, he wasn't very good.
At the exit of the alley, there was a tobacco shop.
A 55-year old woman lived there, powdering her face.
After she had driven away 7 or 8 of her lovers,
she couldn't decide whether to get a middle-aged priest or a
middle-aged whatever.
But, on the other side of the building, there lived a widow who lived off
a small amount of money.
There also was a brother and sister, but their relationship was that of a married couple.
But it was thought that this was more economical and their relationship was tolerated
until the brother got a girlfriend.
It became necessary for the widow to get rid of the sister
and it was decided that she would be married to a 50 or 60 year old relative.
She drank rat poison.
After drinking it, she went to the tailor's training, suffered, and died, but...
at that time, the village doctor gave the widow a medical certificate and
the conversation ended right there.
Since I was a newspaper journalist, I knew about the lives of these people,
but I had never imagined that the squalid outskirts of the shopping district was like this.
I asked if this was caused by human nature being ruined by the war.
"No, it's always been like this around here. "
the tailor had replied quietly with a face like a philosopher's.
But the most distinctive person was our neighbor.
Our neighbor was insane.
He had a huge fortune, but went out of his way to build his house
in the poverty of this alley. It was thought that this was the result of his hatred
for worldly desires.
The madman's name was Kogarashi. He had a mother and a 32-33 year old wife.
The man's wife was an idiot.
One year, Kogarashi left on a trip to Shikoku as a pilgrim.
But, at that time, somewhere in Shikoku, he hit it off well with an idiot woman
and returned with her as his wife as a pilgrimage souvenir.
Sometimes the neighbor would slip in through the fence and play tricks on the livestock
but, since I thought he was an important person, I would just quietly nod.
However, what is the difference between the madman and normal people?
If there is a difference, the madman is essentially more honest than normal people.
The madman laughs when he wants to laugh. He gives a speech when he wants to give a speech.
But others fear the fact that he does such things in public.
Compared to others, he didn't say a lot of unnecessary rambling things.
He was very thoughtful.
Miss Sayo. Miss Sayo.
What have I told you!
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Because of this long war, people's minds had become paralyzed.
What was the purpose of this war? Whose sake was this war for?
Embracing these questions, the color of life was everyday tension,
smeared out in an endless boredom.
All pleasure is provided by the state under the label of "culture. "
It is a horrible crime that has rendered the populace helpless.
Media Station. A palace of falsehood and foolishness.
Every kind of ugliness in this world is spit out from here.
The people devoured it.
You bastards are the staff of the "Imperial Special. "
This program is completely different than every other shitty program.
This is the nation's "Imperial Special"!
This program is an entirely different world, too good for you assholes.
You fuckers aren't humans! You're shit!
You're all my shit!
Shit doesn't eat or talk. You will listen to what I say and reply.
You little shit over there.
Why is the "Imperial Special" so big? Do you know why?
B... Because the ceiling is really high.
You little shit, give me the answer.
B... B.. Because the television ratings are high.
I can't hear you.
Because the television ratings are high!
Television ratings of 70%!
Which means that almost every idiot in this country watches this show.
Why do we have television ratings of 70%?
Because Ginga performs on the show.
Miss Ginga, you asshole! Miss Ginga!
She's not the type of person you can refer to so casually.
Because of Miss Ginga, we are able to eat every day.
She may be a disrespectful brat, but she's the top singing idol.
All the women in the country admire her and all the men jack off to her.
Everyone here, even the bureau director, adores her
And if you make her even a little mad, you're kicking us all in the balls.
That brat is queen here!
And tonight's "Imperial Special" is a very special show.
It's celebrating the "queen's upcoming 20th birthday.
So, tonight just try to make our queen a little angry and I'll hollow out your eyes and
shove your balls in there!
I'll give you a body that can never work again. You got that?!
Huh? Do you!?
Yes...
I can't hear you!
Yes!
Questions?
What is tonight's show's theme?
"What is tonight's show's theme?"
What the fuck does that have to do with you? Shit should just shut up and do what it's told.
What? You have a problem?
If there's anyone in my fucking unit without balls, that's a problem.
I don't do sex discrimination. I regard you the same as all the fuckers with balls, so be thankful.
What the hell's with that face?
What toilet were you born in, you little shit?
Hey. Can't you hear me?
Is there anything in your brain?
Who's the asshole who let this guy into my sacred workplace?!
If you make me any more irritated, I'm gonna make it so you can never open your mouth again.
I'll make it so snot can't even get out your nose.
Hey.
Chief!
G... G... Ginga has just entered the building.
Ginga...?
Yes.
But... it can't possibly be that time yet.
That fucking brat. What is she thinking?
Okay, you bastards. You understand, right? Right...?
Good morning, Miss Ginga.
Wow, today you are wearing an especially beautiful outfit.
Shut up, faggot.
But haven't you come a little early? The rehearsal is at...
Four o'clock.
at four o'clock. And the actual performance is at...
Seven o'clock.
at seven o'clock.
We'd like to have that changed.
Huh?
We don't need the rehearsal. So please move the schedule up to the actual performance.
But... move up the schedule...? It's a live broadcast.
That's why I'd like to you record Ginga's portion before the broadcast.
Pre-record a live broadcast...? W... What do me mean by this?
Today the movements of the stars are bad. This week Aries have bad luck.
Yesterday I only slept eight hours. If I don't sleep ten hours, my skin gets dry.
Today I'd like to get the performance over with quickly. So finish it before 7, ok?
But, Miss Ginga. Today is our final broadcast. A wonderful birthday special. So, let's take
some time out for the rehearsal...
I made reservations tonight at The Sky Buffet. The Penne Arabiata there is so delicious.
And for dessert Zabaione. The chocolate soufflé is also really good. What should I do?
But... But... But...
"But... But... But... " What are you talking like a record for?
Can't you hurry up and start? I'm getting annoyed.
That dancer over there... Number 2...
She's too pretty. Have her removed.
What the hell are you standing around for? Do the preparations for changed schedule of
the main performance!
Yes, sir.
Main performance warning announcement.
Mr. Ochiai. It seems that you've just randomly decided to change the schedule again.
Sir, it's because...
If this doesn't go well, we're in trouble. Lately the program's vigor has been down, hasn't it?
The bureau director is also worried. So if you're not more careful...
I understand. "A place with order" is my motto.
30 seconds until main performance. Everyone, please turn off your cell phones.
10 seconds until main performance.
Camera... OK. Crane... OK.
5 seconds... 4... 3... 2...
Fuck...
"Imperial Special"
Hello! People of our nation, we meet again.
It's Media Station's best show, "Imperial Special"!
Today we just received wonderful news from the front lines, didn't we?
That's right! Unit number 17 has broken through enemy lines!
With this capture, we've built a new position!
With this victory, we've moved another step forward.
Yes. We also have one more important piece of news.
Everyone, you probably already know what I'm talking about.
That's right! The 14th of this month is Ginga's 20th birthday.
So, I would like to introduce our goddess of victory.
Among our entire nation's marketing, she was chosen as our country's most loved woman.
Our nation's biggest star, the charming soldier of love...
Ginga!!
When I'm alone, there are times that I cry.
There are also nights where I'm shaken by anxiety.
But I believe that love's power will protect me.
Love's power will crush my enemies.
Don't underestimate my power.
Even if you're just playing, I'm serious.
I can't escape. It's already too late.
I understand that it's impossible.
But I believe.
The power of love will protect me.
Don't underestimate me. I'm not a child anymore.
I don't care that you had a girlfriend.
Kindness is something we'll talk about after you win.
I understand that it's unreasonable.
But I believe.
That's why...
That's why...
I'm going to win (I'm going to win)
No matter how painful (however painful)
I'm going to win (I'm going to win)
No matter how difficult (however difficult)
In order to crush my enemies, I will roar to heaven.
Ah, the power of love!
I'm going to win (I'm going to win)
No matter how painful (however painful)
I'm going to win (I'm going to win)
No matter how difficult (however difficult)
I'm going to win (I'm going to win)
No matter how much I get hurt (however much I get hurt)
I'm going to win (I'm going to win)
No matter how sad (however sad)
The directors of mass media television are the worst of the worst.
Their everyday conversation, when compared to a businessman or a
government employee or a school teacher,
was overflowing with words of human individualism and originality,
but they were nothing more than words.
The troubles of life were ridiculous things such as the pain of a hangover and
making passes at women.
No matter what time period, these guys are without substance and
nothing but an empty identity.
Depending on what's popular, they move from right to left,
learning example expressions from a comic book and believing them to be
the expressions of the times.
The reality of the times is just that, a superficial idiocy.
Depending solely on this multitude of idiots blind actions, the fate of the nation is moving.
Hey. In these rough times, what is individuality?
What use is art?
Shouldn't television tie together people's dreams BECAUSE these are hard times?
In creating a television program, you have to give the populace their dreams
while informing them of the truth.
Do you understand?
A meeting will be held at 2 o'clock in the special conference room.
They don't understand at all...
What television needs now are programs that show humans as they really are.
Not dressing them up in some weird outfit and parading them around.
Even though their houses and families are being burned in the air raids...
Izawa...
That 8 millimeter film you made a long time ago...
It was really good.
The film with the wind.
It was just wind blowing.
There was no dialogue, but it had a transparency and it felt great.
Izawa...
You've got talent.
I'm jealous...
Miss Sayo, Miss Sayo
Where did you go?
Miss Sayo
Where did you go?
Miss Sayo, Miss Sayo
Where did you go?
I really don't know what to do with her!
Good morning.
One idiot...
Two idiots...
Three idiots.
Four idiots.
Five idiots.
Six idiots.
Seven idiots.
Isn't there a shorter skirt for Ginga?
(Ginga: Eight idiots)
If it were any shorter than that, it'd ruin the balance.
Balance? Balance?! What's that?
If you think about the design and volume, a shorter skirt than that would be...
Design, volume, I don't care about any of that. What's important is "legs"! Her legs!
People are only looking at legs anyway. Who the hell cares about balance?
In the arrangements, we were told that that was okay.
Who said it was okay?
It was you, wasn't it?
No...
Anyway, go change it into a shorter skirt.
If we search for one now, we won't make it in time for the main program.
Who said to search for one?
Just cut it! snip-snip!
You've got scissors, don't you!? Scissors!
If you wanna cut it, come and cut it yourself. Faggot.
Fucking brat...
Hey, you idiot over there!
Come here.
I'm talking to you, idiot!
You... Cut her skirt.
Hurry up and cut it!
Just hurry up and go!
Hurry up and cut it!
If you can cut it, then go ahead.
What the hell are you waiting for, idiot? Cut it! Cut it! Cut it! Hurry up!
You don't know how to use a scissors?
Are you really that stupid?
You use a scissors like this.
Are you okay?
Ah, I'm sorry.
Izawa.
This job really isn't for you.
Why don't you change to a different post?
No, I'm fine.
I'll try my best.
Excuse me.
What's wrong? Are you okay?
I'm okay.
You're Izawa, aren't you?
I know about you.
A long time ago, you won an award for a movie you made.
I also had an interest in movies when I was a student.
Ah, how rude of me.
I'm Nakamura from Production Group Four.
The circumstances may not be good, but I'm glad that we could get acquainted.
Well, then, I hope to see you later.
Hey! You thieves!
Wait! Hey!
Aki, that bitch... I can't believe her...
Mr. Izawa, do you have today off?
I was searching for a film for myself
because I was sick of television's invented fantasy world.
But where in this world is any truth?
The more I thought about it, the more it seemed that the truth inside myself was moving far away.
Mr. Izawa
Yes?
I'm sorry, but could you help me?
I'd like you to attach an umbrella over there.
An umbrella?
There have been complaints that at night light is escaping from the house.
You fucking idiot!
How dare you be late?
What do you think happened because you were late?
Our goddess got into a bad mood!
"Today my stars' fortune is low. So I'm going to rest. "
You asshole! It's all because of your lateness!
What are you gonna do about my schedule?
Go apologize.
Dance or something. Lure that fucking Amaterasu back here.
Excuse me.
I'll tell you beforehand. Today is impossible. No matter how much you beg, it's useless.
Even if you offered her your other ear.
Don't ask her anything unnecessary.
Don't talk about her appearance or proportions.
Especially about her nose.
And any conversation about family is definitely taboo.
You got it, right?
Don't make her mad.
But, you know what?
Don't listen to what she says to you seriously.
If she says she's going to give something to you, don't take it. Don't give her anything, either.
If you're not careful,
you could lose your life.
Do you think that the body and the mind are separate things?
Men are all stupid, aren't they?
You say "body" and all they can think of is sex.
And if I spend several hundred years thinking about who I am, where I'm going, where I came from,
I wonder if I still won't know...
It just means that thinking is a waste of time.
Don't just stand there. Why don't you sit down?
I didn't see you this morning.
What was wrong?
You were late, weren't you?
Did you get hit?
And you came to apologize?
How stupid. Did you think that I was in a bad mood because of you?
I hate that stupid vulgar faggot.
Eventually I'll do something about him.
Sit down.
I'm sorry about what I did to your ear. How are you feeling?
The faggot hit you?
Show me.
What are you scared for? What do you think I am?
Show me.
Here? He hit you here?
No! I'm just joking around!
You came all the way here. So enjoy yourself.
Work is over for today, anyway.
You're an interesting person, aren't you?
I like interesting people.
That face. Why are you making that kind of face?
Why don't you say anything?
Are you nervous?
You're worried, aren't you?
It's okay.
A pretty face.
You said you were Izawa, right?
Izawa what?
You rent a room in the slums, right?
You can't call women to a dirty place like that.
I'll introduce you to a cleaner place.
I know all about you.
You were born in Niigata and ran away from home.
You avoided becoming a soldier because you have a weak body.
Instead you became a journalist
But you didn't like writing articles about the war, did you?
Running away from your home, running away from the war, and you ended up here.
How was it? Is it like heaven here?
Oh, you're a good boy. I understand real well how smart you are.
You're looking down on me, aren't you?
No...
You think I'm starving for a man? The one who's starving is you.
You really want a woman. That's your biggest desire, isn't it?
You just don't want to admit it.
You're scared of living with a woman.
Dishes and tableware and miso and rice...
A child gets born and you have to listen to grumbling and complaining.
Your pride and desires and success all disappear.
Your own lifestyle is squashed like dog shit,
dried up and blown away by the wind, leaving no traces.
Even the marks from her nails will disappear.
It's an unbearable life.
Do you think that women bring about that kind of life?!
What you're afraid of is just the vanity of the world!
I'll kill you. Say something. "Stop it" or "Forgive me" or something.
You're cocky, aren't you?
It's cute.
There's nothing to think about.
If you get along with me, you can live a lot easier.
No one will bully you anymore.
You can become even more distinguished.
You can even make the movies you love most.
Accept me.
You want to see the real heaven?
Hey, what did you do to Ginga?
I don't even have the strength to deal with the horror of this reality.
Ah, war. This great destruction.
By this incredibly bizarre impartiality, everyone is judged.
My fellow countrymen collapsing one after another like dolls made of mud...
It is a meaningless and sad feeling of love.
I thought that she had probably been scolded and ran here to escape.
But, to wake up the neighbor in the middle of the night and return his wife would be difficult...
But, on the other hand, staying with a woman for the night could produce a great misunderstanding.
Since her husband was insane, I couldn't even imagine what would happen.
But, I was tired and didn't really care what would happen next.
If you'd like, you can come out here...
I'm going to get the futon out.
Please sleep here.
I'm...
hated...
I shouldn't have come.
I'm hated...
I didn't think so...
Why won't you touch me?
What are words? What value do they have?
Even human love has no proof other than words.
Where is the truth that can be entrusted with the passion of life?
It is all a shadow of falsehood.
From that day on, a different life started.
But other than the increase of a female body in a house, nothing else changed.
Mr. Izawa.
Mr. Izawa, can I come in?
I brought you some sweets. Isn't it boring eating by yourself?
At least dry your futon out every now and then.
It's alright. I'll dry it out myself.
Don't forget.
I won't.
But when I stepped one foot out of the house, I completely forgot about the idiot woman.
Somehow, those events weren't clear in my memory.
It felt like they had occurred 10 or 20 years ago.
War was a strange yet healthy amnesia.
The awakening of a new life.
Shining miracles of today.
A shining sky. Your voice with our dreams.
I'm thinking about a new project...
This is off the record, but I'm planning on making a movie.
Companies are providing new computer terminals for imaging now.
It's what you might call New Wave Media.
Izawa, the war is bringing in a new situation.
And that is an "information attack. "
It'll change from operations information to fighting information which we'll use as a weapon.
But the weak point in this plan is...
It's only a system with no substance.
It's lacking attractive contents.
We call it pioneering a new media, but...
it still can't compete with the old films.
Don't you think so?
That's why we have to re-envision film.
But the upper class are losing their sensitivity and passion for cinema.
So I want to entrust this with the younger generation.
What do you think?
Don't you have any interest in my proposal?
But I'm just a directing assistant.
Well, certainly it may be unusual for me to have this kind of conversation
with someone I don't know well.
But, seeing you, I was reminded of my own youth.
"I was like him too once... "
I was defiant back then and was always arguing.
I was bullied often.
There. The cigarette burns are still left.
I got in an argument with one of my seniors and he burnt me with his cigarette.
Well, I was bullied and bullied. And, as I was thinking up excuses, I became a skilled producer.
So, when I met you, it just came to me.
How do I say this?
You were so transparent...
Izawa.
I can feel it.
The beautiful energy that flows out of you.
A flow of clear energy...
I'm interested in you.
I'd like to take a risk with you.
What do you think?
Won't you join me?
What do you want me to do?
First there's planning. I need a screenplay.
It's alright if it's just temporary, but can you work something out by next Thursday?
Please freely write about something daring.
Those kinds of things are always the best.
Don't worry. If I must say, I'm the most flexible producer around here.
Well, I am a little eccentric.
Izawa.
I'm looking forward to your work.
Youth have to produce the good stuff.
Is something wrong?
Uh, no. I wonder what it could be. Maybe there are rats in this house or something...
The last couple in the world is walking towards the world's end.
The two continued on and on through the cold wind.
They finally arrived at the world's end.
It was the mountain where God lives.
They climbed the mountain, put pepper on their lips, and prayed for the world to end.
Everything disappeared.
Mountains... Men... Women... Colors... Even light...
Then God appeared and blessed the couple.
Then God remade the world again.
Eternally new...
very nostalgic...
Attention. Today's studio inspection has been cancelled.
An accident occurred.
Ochiai's head was directly struck by some lighting, almost as if he had been targeted.
Everyone in the establishment was brought together
and my colleague, Yoshida, was suddenly chosen as the new director.
No one had even imagined he'd have been singled out for director.
It all proceeded as if it were part of some movie scenario.
Once again my days of boredom had returned.
Sorry...
Push harder.
Push.
It was during a day off at midday when, from far off, a bombing attack began.
Since we didn't have a bomb shelter, we hid in my closet.
I had written a screenplay about a 27-year old directing assistant who was living with an idiot woman.
Had I written the truth? Or did what I write become the truth?
I myself didn't even know.
This is a pretty difficult project...
I don't mean that it's bad, but...
I wonder if the television viewers will understand it...
Don't misunderstand me.
I don't hate this kind of stuff.
I mean, there are a lot of worthless programs on TV.
I think that literary movies are essential.
This is a novel idea.
How do I say this?
I just wonder whether the average viewer will understand this.
Because viewers are incredibly stupid.
But more than that, I wonder what the intellectual community would say about this...
It might be quite difficult to make money with this.
For the mean time, let's use this as a basis and leave the screenplay to a professional.
It might change quite a bit...
To be honest, I don't really know whether this is interesting or not...
Izawa
I'm not saying this is impossible.
This kind of project is decided by its main star.
This main character... the "idiot woman"...
Is it alright to tell you my opinion?
For the main character...
I'd like to go with her.
Of course, you know her pretty well, too.
She's really popular right now, right?
Actually, I'm the one who first discovered and brought up Ginga.
I'd like to work with her again.
She's on your program pretty often, isn't she?
I'm sorry, but...
Could you ask her to make the movie with me?
It'd be faster than talking with her manager.
And it's your screenplay. Can you do it?
This is a big chance for you.
Hey... Izawa!
Studio #1- "Imperial Special"- 's run-through will be conducted at 3 o'clock.
Studio #1's run-through will begin at 3 o'clock.
My candy!
Someone, bring me my candy!
Please.
Unwrap it.
I don't like those eyes.
Don't look at me!
Disgusting eyes...
I'd like to hollow them out.
Do you think that I'm Satan?
Pick it up.
Why don't you eat it?
It's delicious.
With my saliva all over it.
Pig.
Ginga, Happy Birthday.
Thank you!
Today Ginga is especially beautiful.
Don't stare at her so much. The aftermath is pretty scary.
Oh, isn't this a surprise? Meeting you here.
Is it strange that I'm here? The first person to discover Ginga was me, anyway.
And that's the one thing you always complain about.
You're one to talk. Stealing her from me...
But it's rather impressive.
Getting along with the bureau director, huh?
You sure have gotten ahead in life.
How many men have you crushed by now?
This isn't a place for losers.
Ginga, you should dance too.
Dance, Ginga.
You want me to dance?
I'm expensive.
Come on. Dance!
I don't want to dance today.
You shouldn't dance, Ginga.
It's my request, Ginga. Dance for me, the bureau director.
No, Ginga. Don't dance.
Do I have to dance for free?
If you dance for me, I'll give you anything.
Really? Anything?
Anything. Today is your 20th birthday.
If you want something, just tell me.
Do you really promise?
Hey. Who do you think I am? Whether it be a tank or a platoon, I can give you anything.
Well, then I'll dance.
Ginga...
Wonderful, Ginga. You were wonderful.
So, you'll give me what I want?
Whatever you want. Clothes? Cars? Jewelry?
On a silver plate...
On a silver plate... what?
A mountain of candy?
Izawa's head.
Izawa's head...
Who's Izawa?
This is great.
Ginga, how do you wanna... cook this guy?
Leave.
Everyone, leave.
Leave!
Get out of here!
Everyone, get out of here!
What's wrong, Ginga?
Everyone, get out of here!
Stop it!
Hurry up! What are you doing? Get out of here!
Hurry!
Go away! Everyone!
Get out of here!
Everyone, leave!
Ginga.
You too. Get out of here.
A lot of people died today.
Over here and over there, lots of idiots are dying.
You look pathetic.
I thought I told you to stop looking at me like that!
You look horrible.
Just horrible.
Why don't you quit working here?
You could quit any time you want.
Why are you always getting in my way?
An honest man.
But just honest.
That's why you can't become a bad person.
Good things and bad things... You don't judge anything...
Saying nothing and doing nothing...
It's almost like you're being wise like an old man.
You're so great.
Really you think that I'm pitiable, don't you?
You also think that yourself and the war are pitiable.
Just like God, you're watching life from outside the world.
How noble of you.
Well, you know what? I don't like or dislike this world, either.
I don't really care if the world is destroyed or anything.
But, I am different from you
in that I'm trying my hardest to live.
I like desperately living like a bug, ugly and frantically flailing arms and legs.
I could kill you right now.
Because humans die so easily.
Because... living is so much harder...
I saw eyes like yours a long time ago.
The eyes of someone determined...
When I was a child, my house was burned down and I fled with my mother.
Right before my eyes, a man was being beaten by a crowd of men.
Because the man wasn't Japanese...
There wasn't any real reason, but the man was lynched anyway.
The man, noticing us, looked in our direction.
Then the men who were beating him noticed us.
They asked the man...
"Is that your family?"
The man, while staring at us, replied...
"No. "
They were chilling eyes.
Determined eyes...
They were the eyes of one awaiting death.
This time the men asked us.
"Is this your father?"
I was scared and couldn't say anything.
So I ran.
I ran for a while and then turned around.
I couldn't see the man anymore.
Because the group of men had surrounded the man and wouldn't stop beating him.
My mother pulled me by my hand and we ran and ran.
But no matter where we went, it was Hell.
But... what had burned into my eyes...
those eyes...
That look...
The eyes of a determined man...
The look of a man challenging death...
The same as your eyes.
This is ridiculous.
Determined people, people who scoff at those things... All humans are worthless.
It's so stupid.
It's hilarious. I laugh at it.
This world and all its people can die at my feet, looking up at me.
I'll live on.
I'll live on, crushing people as I dance.
Is that strange?
Am I crazy?
I'm scared of dying.
I don't want to die.
That's why I'm scared of you.
Your honesty scares me.
When I look at you, I come to my senses.
If I come to my senses, I won't be able to live any more.
Don't come here ever again.
I'm 20 now.
We should have a huge party.
I'll wear clothes that will make everyone jealous...
Everyone will celebrate my birthday on a simultaneous national broadcast
Help me...
What's wrong?
Was I dreaming?
No... Is there proof that even this reality isn't a dream?
I wanted to make sure... of my lost time...
...of her shadow... her skin... her existence...
More than that, I had to verify my own existence.
Where am I?
Do you like them?
This one is better made.
These stones. They are saying that they want a face.
that they want me to draw them a face.
You know what you are, right?
These stones also know that they are stones.
What separates men from stones?
Is it wisdom?
Is it life?
No.
It's a face.
Because it lacks a face, it is just a stone.
Because it has a face, you are you and I am me.
But if you didn't have a face...
and if I didn't have a face...
there is nothing to separate you from me.
It is the same with a stone.
You are I are only stones with faces.
There are tens of thousands of stones with faces jumbled together in this world.
She is...
Sayo is...
a stone without a face.
That's because she is a part of her hometown.
Humans need a hometown.
Things other than humans also have hometowns.
Dogs... cats... even stones have hometowns...
In the end, everyone returns to their hometown.
One rakes up the helplessness of the world.
Secretly the dream has become clear.
One rakes up the helplessness of the world.
Secretly the dream has become clear.
Mother... Mother...
Mother...
Mother...
Go home.
You shouldn't be here.
Aki!
Where did she go with that baby?
Mr. Izawa, I thought that we'd be okay for another 4 or 5 days, but this town is finally over too.
Let's run away together.
Run away? To where?
This time I had made up my mind.
The great love of war would solve everything.
Mr. Izawa, I'm going to get out of here.
I don't want to stay around and die in smoke.
Good luck.
This is my final film.
Miss Sayo, let's run away together.
So pretty...
Don't go over there!
If you go there, you'll only die.
When you die, we'll do it together.
Don't be scared!
And don't leave me.
Forget about the fire and the bombs and we'll go down this street together.
Look straight ahead down this street and hold onto my shoulder.
Alright?
You got it?
Is she alright? Is she injured?
Be brave and hold on.
I took the idiot woman's hand and walked on and on.
We walk endlessly down the eternal path.
"Thinking of tomorrow, Izawa lowered his eyes. "
Tadanobu Asano
Miyako Koda
Reika Hashimoto
Masao Kusagari
Original work by Ango Sakaguchi
Written and directed by Makoto Tezuka
Translated and subtitled by Eric Fetterman (Naren)
