On the powerful docks of the Wrexham company...
... war and trading vessels are built...
...machines being built and being taken apart...
Lord John Bellamont can't deny that just 25 years ago he was just dockworker, John Wrexham...
... with regards to his son Philipp, he was used to leading the life of luxury.
You will miss me, Philipp, if you go back to Oxford tomorrow.
Don't you want to spend as long as possible with me today?
I can't, Vicky, I still have to say goodbye to my father.
Who is that with Philipp?
Don't you know Vicky?
Her official title is Lady Victoria Burlington, daughter of the Duke of Dover.
We actually lead a pointless existence - Dance, Jazz and Sparkling Wine serve no purpose in life.
Wake up, sleepy head! We want to liven this place up!
Let's go now, Philipp, and I'll drive with you to the shipyard, to meet your father.
I made a decent offer to the people.
If the staff reject the proposal, I shall lock the whole lot of them out!
That's O'Neil, he has a wife and child.
Is the wife of Michael O'Neil, here?
Let the insurance company know about the accident and give the widow £500 from my cash drawer.
Your son and Lady Victoria are in the shipyard - they will be here soon.
I regret the misfortune most sincerely. I have made provision for the family accordingly.
A submarine? Are some ships to be sunk?
Yes ! - The ships of other fleets.
Here, spend the money at Oxford, show them that you are the wealthy son of old Wrexham!
This is your last term, in the Autumn you will become my partner.
There's Lady Bellmont with her latest suitor -
a scandal, how the woman behaves - she has an adult son!
Isn't that your mother?
I see my mother so rarely, that I hardly recognise her anymore!
Well - if it isnt my son, Philipp?
If you don't want to drive me to the Legation Ball, Philipp, then take me home now.
The old University city, Oxford...
... where the rich sons of England study, work and play sport...
I have acquired a house in the city, which is like a Hotel, and want...
Haven't you heard the news?
Philipp Wrexham suddenly became pious -
imagine that, after his earlier mad life!
To inaugurate our Palace - The Prime Minister, the Lord Chancellor and the first Lord of the Admiralty
have confirmed their attendance. I wish that you, being my intended associate, will fulfill your representational duties.
The Dinner will start at 9 o'clock.
Your loving, father.
Do you want to come to the tennis court?
We need real men for our work, hard workers, undemanding tireless fighters.
I am your servant! - This proud phrase that a German prince could transform the World into a Paradise...
...if only people were to take this seriously.
But ambition, greed and lust for power
destroy any hope for happiness.
God? God gave us the best will, to love
and make our fellow men happy!
That really came from the heart.
Can I count on your co-operation?
Why haven't you changed yet? Our
guests will be here soon.
Leave me with your records in peace -
they're even more warped than you!
... fine, I will be there. After all I
have to dine somewhere.
Why don't you take off that piece of sheet
metal from around your neck?
You make yourself look ridiculous
with your exotic medals.
Actually, I didn't want you at all. I was
looking for Philipp.
I summoned him here urgently. Do you know
for sure whether he is in London?
Do you think that he may have had
a car accident?
My lord, the guests are becoming impatient.
... very well, let them serve Dinner.
A telegram, my lord.
I am Lord Bellamont. Where is my son?
What is this masquerade? Pull yourself
together and come home!
Your son is looking for peace with us -
let him find it!
And what becomes of me, and my business?
Don't you think you have obligations to me -
your father?
I despise the world of your business with
its greed, finances and over-indulgence...
No, father, my decision is made.
You are a fool, if you are to let yourself
be talked round by him.
The Three Passions
Fifth Act
My God! What could have happened?
Worse than suicide - he wants to become a priest!
Thank God, then everything is alright!
He will still, given time, realise that he belongs
and has a free life...
... and then the passion will overcome him,
it will be stronger than his faith...
... the Love !
If you are able to straighten his head out,
you can ask of me, whatever you want.
If I can get him back, I don't know what
else I could still possibly wish for!
In the Seamen's Mission
For three days I haven't eaten anything,
dear Lady.
I don't want Vicky to stay here.
Can you write?
Philipp will not hold out. Today he
almost kissed me!
Difficult days followed for old Lord Bellamont.
No word from Philipp - A strike at the Shipyard...
I have one more chance - I still have
night duty at the Seamen's Mission.
His work means more to him than Love.
They don't know how wealthy he is, I'm glad
that I can help him.
I shall wipe my hands of him - I shall also
cope without you.
You must do the night duty alone tonight.
'scuse me, lady - it's just a force of habit!
...is everything in my hat, lady!
If you come out, you can surely be a
little bit nice!
Son fights at the Wrexham Shipyard.
Lord Bellamont rejects arbitral award.
8000 workers locked out.
Lord Bellamont is very sick. A nervous breakdown
is confirmed. The disturbances, which are
Telephone my son - quick!
Hurry, for God sake hurry! Young sir,
your father is dieing.
Get the people back in again - the work starts up again...
Your demands are met, if you will agree
to immediately start work again!
This is your place, Philipp - yours and
Vicky's - the workers need you!
