The novel by Felix Holländer, "Der Eid des Stephan Hull"
Script - Leo Birinski
Photography - Scenography
Director
In "Luna Park" in Hamburg
Boss, owner of the booth
The steamer "Berta Maria" docked at the port of Hamburg that evening.
Boss and his companion do a number together.
We had a gypsy on board with the company. Everyone left at the last port,  ...
but they abandoned this ... girl.
You say that she dances well?
In this group, we all do, too.
She stays!
It has a very strange name. We call our ship the "Berta Maria"
Are not you tired of this monotonous life?
How much better would it be to do our acrobatic act and travel the world
I know I'm a burden. I know I try but I fail.
If you're jealous of that girl, tomorrow we will tell her go.
It looks as if I am.  We're not married.
I will do whatever you want.
The show is over.
You've finished! - Do you understand? Completely, forever!
I leave tonight. Will you come with me?
The Berlin Wintergarten.  The new acts program.
The Artinelli Brothers
Sir: The Artinellis await you in their study.
Unfortunately I must terminate my contract. My brother is seriously injured.
Klerck: try to obtain a replacement quickly.
I found an excellent number.  Boss is back at the plaza.
Are you kidding? I cannot associate with such a low-class acrobat.
"... but if you saw .... his companion ... "
The famous Artinellis want to sign you ... if you made it our debut. We would do the "Wintergarten"
Joining the Artinellis is a good omen.
Not only is he a great artist, but he is also an interesting man.
Artinelli has invited all the artists to the Wintergarten to celebrate our success.
A souvenir of our debut
END OF PART ONE
PART TWO
Artinelli - And where is he?
He is still sleeping
Our success has enabled us to go to America.
Is this your way of thanking me?
Mine should be ... It was I who has made you successful ... I even took you to the booths at the fairs.
You're as lucky in cards as you are in love.
I am sorry, but tonight I cannot be at the Reunion of the Artist's Circle
What a pity! I have never seen such a party.
If Mr. Artinelli wants to accompany you...
I was surprised myself ... at the party in Linderpark ...
That night, the fabulous trio will perform, on the night of honor,
The exciting "triple somersault".
Tell Berta Maria not to be late again tonight.
I have invited my friends from Hamburg.
Pick it up and defend yourself!
I will count to three ...
Where is the nearest police station?
The mother of your son has made a request to the Ministry of Justice
and requested that you be pardoned to be with your son
... I do not want my request to be ignored.  You should return to
our son, and forget everything that has happened
Every day he asks for his father.  I tell him he is in a distant land ...
The pardon has been granted. Make certain that
you are grateful for this
generous act.
END
